alright so it's now time to code the
various insert methods so let's start
with the insert artist method and that's
going to need the artist name so we're
going down to the bottom here and start
work on this so it's going to be...
...
...in other
words if we get a number back from our
first query we know that in this case
the artist is already on file so we're
returning the id of the existing
artist and exiting method because
we don't actually need to insert the
artist because they're already on file
we get down to here we're going to put
an else in here
this means we need to insert the artist
that's because they're not on file so to
do that we're going to...
...
so that should not only save the record
it will actually tell us how many rows were
updated in this case should only one and
we do a test...
....
alright so assuming we are down this far
though we know that our record was
successfully updated so we're going to
do...
....
...just going over what
we've done again so the first thing we
did is we actually queering the artist
table to see if the artist already exists
if it does then we return the ID that we
retrieved from the result set and return
the value because we no
longer going to insert anything because we
found the artist on file and it's going
to be in column 1 by the way that's why
using the dot get int 1 here we always
know that that will be on column one since we
created the prepared statement for the
query we only ask that the ID column
should be returned
now in the case of the artist not being
in the artist table we're going to
insert the artist so the code flow
comes through to here so we
do a similar thing here we set the
indicies to 1 and the name being the name
of the artist we want to insert we then
execute this line here on line 354
now that we're not using the execute
method here
that's because the execute method
returns a boolean indicating what type
of result the executed sql statement
return here using execute update because
that returns the number of rows affected
by the sql code that ran now since
we're inserting a single row we actually
expect only one record to be returned
that's the code here and if it isn't
we thrown an sqlexception obviously
something's gone badly wrong if
we've got a result that's a not equal to
exactly one rows that have been
created by the database failing that we
get down to here and we used the get
generated keys method to get a result
set that contains the generated key so it
can be keys depending on the insert in
this case is just the one
so get the key value the artist_id
in this case by using
this generated keys .get int
result and again the key will be at
position one since we only expect one key to
be returned and finally what we've been
doing is we're returning that value
back to the caller and if no key was
returned for some reason throwing an
sqlexception that in theory shouldn't
happen then obviously you have seen
their that I'm throwing sqlexception in
the method and that's because we want
the caller to handle these and we'll see
how this makes things cleaner in a
little while so the query album
method is pretty much the same except we
have to change some variable names and
messages we have to set two values in a
prepared statement so what I'm going to
do is take a copy of this method will
just go through it carefully and make
sure that we make all the necessary
changes just to save typing and
paste that in go back up to the top
there and this one's going to being
called the insert album so....
this one's got two parameters the string
name is the first one and the second one
is the int artist ID the artist ID will
come from the call from this instead of
artist method so in terms of the code change
the first bit is going to be the same
i'm going to query instead of artists
we going to query album...
...so we are setting
the name of the album we are searching for
to the query album query and again
I'll change this to query album so the
results were looking to execute the same
query results dot next returns the fact
that there is a record their we're going
eturn results . get int one that
means that the albums already on file
and will return the ID of the album to
the calling method
otherwise we go insert the album at this
point instead insert into artists going
to be insert into albums so the....
...the first ones still
correct one comma name but you also need a
second one here and insert into albums
again dot this time it's the key the
artists key or artist ID....
...
we're looking at the number of affected
rows same deal with them even though
we've got to filter updating we still
only inserting one record so checking the
same thing here to check that the
affected rows is not equal to 1 i'm
going to throw that sql exception
and will change the error message to
...
that is the key there if there is we're
going to return the the first column that has
returned from the key which will be the
key
basically the id for the inserted
album record an put a note right here
that album couldn't get id for album for
some reason so lets go ahead and
create the insert song method before we
finish the video I'm going to a similar
thing going to copy this case the
insert album method and paste that in
and then i'm going to call insert songs
...
perimeter is the title as the title
of the song and we don't want artist id
this time we actually want the name....
...
...and do
something a little bit different here so
i'm going to change that we're not going to
throw the exception so we're going to
start off with is a try to wrap our code all in
that...
...
first we're going to do in the try block
now we're going to do...
...
ok so i'm going to copy this code
because some of it will still be relevant
so let's just copy this code to save typing
just up to there and I'm gonna
put that in the try after the...
...alright so what
we need to do first is we need to get the ID for the
artist and the album based on the artist
name and album name that have been
passed this method so the wawhy we do that we
can put int...
...that is
one of the methods we just wrote so it
can return the ID either at the existing
artist if it exists on file or the newly
inserted record and secondly...
ID is equal to insert album album
....see how we
are passing the artist ID to the insert
album method and also passing album
which is the album name we need to set
the various fields for our insert...
...
...we don't use the
artist ID again because the artist ID
was used to help us search for
the album so we don't need to insert that into
the songs because we're using the album
ID at that point and then the code gonna
get rid of some of these other code we need
these queries anymore but what we do need
though down here and execute our update
so int affected rows is going to be
inserted into songs . execute update
...
that's doing a check to see whether
we've got a number of rows back and if
we haven't got one there's a problem
we're actually not going to throw an
exception we are going to do a different way...
...
alright can see that's clean things up
now so let's end the video here now in
the next video we'll just go over what
we've done for this insert song method
then we'll get to the stage of actually
trying out i'll see you in the next
video